A really important consideration with any
robot is the set of all possible points that
it can reach.
And we refer to this volume as the workspace
of the robot.
For most industrial robot arms in the data
sheet that comes with the robot, you could
find the diagram that looks something like
this.
It is a plain view and side elevation view
of the robot.
And what you can see here marked in blue is
the reachable volume of the robot.
We can see that this volume around the body
of the robot where it cannot reach either.
And this is due to mechanical limits on the
range of motion of particular joints or it’s
an artifact of the robot control software
to prevent parts of the arm intersecting or
colliding with other parts of the robot's
arm or its base.